---
layout: default
title: ISO 27001:v2022
parent: Privacy & Compliance
nav_order: 5
---

# ISO/IEC 27001:2022 Alignment with Citadel

Citadel enhances browser security and supports compliance with ISO/IEC 27001:2022 standards. Here's how Citadel's functionalities align with these standards, enhancing security measures and compliance efforts.

## A.5 Organizational Controls

### A.5.7 – Threat Intelligence
Citadel logs security events and potential threats, enhancing organizational threat intelligence and situational awareness, allowing for proactive response to emerging threats.

### A.5.9 – Inventory of information and other associated assets
Citadel identifies shadow IT and manages software licenses by providing application usage statistics, supporting effective asset management and compliance.

## A.5.14 – Information Transfer
Citadel enhances the security of information transfer by monitoring and logging download and upload activities within the browser environment. By detecting when files are downloaded, Citadel ensures that these actions are recorded as security events. This capability together with frequency analysis enables organizations to oversee the transfer of potentially sensitive information, allowing for proactive responses to unauthorized or suspicious transfers.

### A.5.15 – Access Control
- **Session Duration Management:** Ensures sessions do not persist longer than configured by deleting cookies, reducing risks of unauthorized access from unattended sessions.
- **Password Policy Enforcement:** Reviews passwords against configured policies, supporting stringent access control.
- **Network Access Management:** Allows blacklisting of sites or applications, supporting stringent access control.

### A.5.17 – Authentication Information
Citadel enforces password quality through real-time policy checks. It verifies that passwords used in web applications meet organizational standards for length and complexity. Any non-compliance is logged, supporting security audits and strengthening overall access control.

### A.5.26 – Response to information security incidents
The security events logged by Citadel allow for more rapid and detailed DFIR after a security incident.

### A.5.32 – Intellectual property rights
Citadel blocks access to sites known to share illegal content.

### A.5.36 – Compliance with Policies, Rules and Standards for Information Security
Citadel increases visibility into user actions and security incidents, allowing better monitoring of policy adherence and regulatory compliance.

## A.8 Technological Controls
### A.8.1 - User Endpoint Devices
Citadel enforces policies that sessions that are no longer needed are logged off.

### A.8.5 - Secure Authentication
Citadel enforces multi-factor authentication (MFA) policies for browser-based applications, ensuring that authentication requires more than just passwords. By requiring MFA, Citadel significantly strengthens the authentication process and protects against brute force attacks, even if passwords are weak, reused, or compromised.

### A.8.7 – Protection Against Malware
- Citadel raises awareness by flagging security incidents like phishing and virus based on detections made by the browser.
- It actively detects potential threats by blocking attempts to interact with malicious content.

### A.8.11 - Data Masking
Citadel hashes URLs for logging to protect sensitive information, and detects unencrypted traffic.

### A.8.12 - Data Leakage Prevention
- Citadel detects when files are uploaded or downloaded, and when pages are printed (to paper or PDF). 
- Citadel enables the detection of Shadow IT applications and can block access to them

### A.8.15 – Logging
By logging security events, Citadel enhances monitoring capabilities and facilitates comprehensive analysis by SIEM systems.

### A.8.16 – Monitoring
Citadel allow you to monitor outgoing network traffic, and detect traffic to known malicious IP addresses or domains.

### A.8.20 – Networks Security
- Citadel detects unencrypted connections, improving communication security by flagging vulnerabilities due to unencrypted data transfer.
- It performs web filtering, controlling access to potentially malicious or unauthorized websites.

### A.8.23 – Web Filtering
Citadel restricts access to websites containing malicious or illegal content.

### A.8.24 – Use of Cryptography
Citadel detects non-compliance with encryption policies by identifying non-encrypted web connections and flagging SSL issues, such as self-signed or expired certificates.
